DEVELOPING: Trump urges Iranians: 'Take over your government' | Iran retaliates, hits multiple U.S. bases LIVE COVERAGEUpdated 1 minute ago Live updates: U.S. and Israel launch major attack on Iran President Donald Trump urged Iranians to “take over your government” when the strikes are over. Tehran responded by targeting American bases and other targets throughout the region. Save Add NBC News to Google Updated February 28, 2026, 10:31 AM EST By NBC News What to knowMAJOR JOINT ATTACK: The United States launched "major combat operations" in Iran, joined by Israel, President Donald Trump announced in a video message today.IRAN'S LEADERS TARGETED: Israel targeted Iranian political and military leaders, two U.S. officials told NBC News, while the U.S. aimed to take out Iran’s ballistic missile and nuclear programs.TRUMP URGES REGIME CHANGE: Trump urged Iranians to “take over your government” when the strikes are over. “The hour of your freedom is at hand,” he said.IRAN RETALIATION: Iran responded by firing missiles at Israel as well as at U.S. bases across the region in the United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Kuwait, Bahrain and Jordan, sending ripples across the Middle East.TEHRAN WILLING TO TALK: In an exclusive interview with NBC News, Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi said Iran was interested in de-escalation and willing to talk if the U.S. and Israel halted attacks. He told Trump that regime change was "mission impossible"NUCLEAR TALKS: The U.S. built up a massive military presence in the Middle East while holding talks with the Islamic Republic over a new deal to curtail its nuclear program. Araghchi told NBC News that the two sides were close to a deal, decrying the joint strikes while talks were ongoing. NEW UPDATES 1m ago / 10:31 AM ESTNYPD says it's enhancing security at sensitive locationsThe New York Police Department says it is beefing up security at sensitive locations around New York in response to the conflict in Iran."As is our protocol and out of an abundance of caution, we will be enhancing patrols to sensitive locations throughout the city, including diplomatic, cultural, religious, and other relevant sites," the department said in a post on X.There are no plots or specific targeted threats that U.S. counterterrorism officials are tracking this morning as a result of the strikes against Iran overnight, three senior law enforcement officials told NBC News.The situation can change as events unfold in the region, and the threat has been closely examined in recent days by the FBI and others, the officials say.The officials say that interests closer to Iran in the Middle East and Europe face a more imminent threat because of their proximity to the regime’s ability to strike out.5m ago / 10:27 AM ESTGang of Eight briefed earlier this week that military action against Iran 'may become necessary'The group of congressional leaders known as the Gang of Eight was briefed earlier this week that taking military action agaist Iran "may become necessary" to protect American citizens and troops in Iran, House Speaker Mike Johnson said in an X post this morning.The Gang of Eight refers to eight congressional leaders from both parties who are briefed on classified intelligence matters by the executive branch. Currently, the group includes Johnson, R-La.; Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y.; Senate Majority Leader John Thune, R-S.D.; House Minority Leader Hakeem Jeffries, D-N.Y.; House Intelligence Committee Chair Rick Crawford, R-Ark.; House Intelligence Committee ranking member Jim Himes, D-Conn.; Senate Intelligence Committee Chair Tom Cotton, R-Ark; and Senate Intelligence Committee Vice Chair Mark Warner, D-Va.Secretary of State Marco Rubio called each member of the Gang of Eight to give them a heads up about the imminent operation, but was unable to reach one, according to to a White House official and a State Department official. He had briefed the Gang of Eight for an hour on Tuesday, ahead of the State of the Union. Johnson said missiles launched on Iran by the U.S. and Israel today are the result of the country “facing the severe consequences of its evil actions.”“President Trump and the Administration have made every effort to pursue peaceful and diplomatic solutions in response to the Iranian regime’s sustained nuclear ambitions and development, terrorism, and the murder of Americans—and even their own people,” Johnson wrote on X. 9m ago / 10:23 AM ESTGOP Rep. Don Bacon: Military action in Iran is 'overdue'Rep. Don Bacon, R-Neb., told NBC News that military action in Iran is overdue and that the nation's deadly crackdown on protesters was "the straw that broke the camel's back.""Iran has been waging war against us since 1979," Bacon told "Meet the Press" moderator Kristen Welker, adding that after the crackdown, "I think, from a humanitarian point of view, the free world's got to stand up and say, 'This is unacceptable.'"Bacon acknowledged that the joint U.S.-Israeli operation is "high risk," telling NBC News, "I hope it’s successful, and I pray for our men and women in uniform that, you know, that we don’t have casualties.""It’s high risk," he added, but said, "I think it’s overdue."10m ago / 10:22 AM ESTKuwait International Airport targeted by drone, minor injuries reportedKuwait International Airport was targeted by a drone, resulting in minor injuries to "a number of employees," according to Kuwait's Directorate General of Civil Aviation.The attack also caused some damage to the airport's Terminal 1, according to the department. "The authority confirmed that the situation is under complete control by the relevant authorities in the country, and that the safety of travelers and workers is a top priority," the department said in a statement on X. 16m ago / 10:15 AM ESTHeavy traffic and crowded stores in Tehran Long lines of traffic were seen along a highway in Tehran today, as well as Iranians crowding grocery stores to pick up essential items. Motorcyclists were also seen lining up to get gas in the Iranian capital.20m ago / 10:12 AM ESTDemocratic Sen. Andy Kim calls on Congress to return to Washington and vote on war powers resolutionSen. Andy Kim, D-N.J., today called for Congress to return to Washington to vote on a war powers resolution that would authorize or rebuke today's military action in Iran, which the senator called "apalling.""I believe that we need to have Congress reassemble as soon as possible this weekend to be able to vote on the war powers resolution to show that this is not something that the American people want," Kim told NBC News' Kristen Welker.Shortly after Kim spoke with NBC News, Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., also called on Congress to vote on a war powers resolution."The administration must brief Congress, including an immediate all senators classified briefing and in public testimony, to answer these vital questions. The Senate should quickly return to session and reassert its constitutional duty by passing our resolution to enforce the War Powers Act," Schumer said in a statement.Kim accused the president of starting "a protracted, open-ended conflict ... with the objective of regime change.""This is giving us nightmares and flashbacks" to the Iraq War in the 2000s, the New Jersey senator added."Right now, the American people do not buy and do not support what this president is doing," he said.20m ago / 10:11 AM ESTOil prices set to rise when trading resumes tomorrow, which could raise gas pricesExpect oil prices to rise after the U.S. and Israel struck Iran, industry analysts say.Iran is the fourth largest crude oil producing country in OPEC, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration. While Iran’s oil output is estimated to be only around 3 million barrels per day, less than 5% of global output, it has major influence over the Strait of Hormuz.About 20 million barrels per day of crude oil and refined energy products pass through that key artery, longtime oil industry expert Andy Lipow told NBC News last year. Total world oil demand is about 103 million barrels a day. Today, Lipow predicted in a note “that oil prices could rise $3 to $5 per barrel, perhaps more, when trading re-opens Sunday night.” Global energy and commodity markets reopen Sunday at 6 p.m. ET.Even before the latest events in Iran, the price of U.S. crude oil has risen almost 18% since the start of the year.How will that affect prices at the pump? Retail gas prices move about 2.4 cents per gallon for every $1 move in the price of oil.22m ago / 10:10 AM ESTIran's FM disputes Trump's claim that it has missiles capable of hitting the U.S.Iran’s foreign minister disputed President Donald Trump’s claim that the Islamic Republic is building missiles capable of hitting the U.S.In his interview with NBC News, Abbas Araghchi said Iran had intentionally kept the range of its missiles below 2,000 km, around 1,250 miles.“We don’t want to do that because we don’t have any hostility against, you know, the United States people and, you know, or Europeans,” he said, adding that it had built weapons “in order to defend ourselves against our enemies.”   “Our missile missiles proved to be the most reliable means of defense for us. So obviously we cannot compromise on our missiles, because our security depends on them” Araghchi said.In his State of the Union address, Trump said Iran was working to develop missiles that could “soon” be able to strike the U.S. 25m ago / 10:07 AM ESTChanging Iran's regime is 'mission impossible,' foreign minister tells NBC NewsChanging the Iranian regime is “mission impossible,” the country’s foreign minister said in his interview with NBC News.“You cannot do regime change while millions of people are supporting the so-called regime,” he said, adding that millions of people came out onto the streets in cities across the country to mark the recent anniversary of the 1979 revolution.“Yes, there are also people who are complaining, but there are strong supporters of the regime,” he said. “And then we have a very well-established political structure.”Iran's government had tolerated peaceful protests earlier this year, he said. But without providing evidence, he said "armed elements" supported by Israel had "started shooting at our police and security forces, so it was a completely different story." The regime had no choice but to respond, he added.Thousands of people are thought to have been killed during the crackdown on the protests and many more have been arrested.27m ago / 10:05 AM ESTInternet access in Iran almost completely down in wake of strikesIran’s internet connection to the outside world, already severely reduced in the wake of protests last month, has slowed to a trickle in the wake of strikes on the country.Doug Madory, the director of internet analysis at Kentik, a company that monitors global connectivity, told NBC News that Iran is “99% down” with “a tiny trickle” still connecting.Iran at times directs its internet providers to shut off the country’s global internet connections, particularly when there is unrest. It most recently conducted a weekslong blackout starting on Jan. 8, from which it still had not fully restored access.28m ago / 10:04 AM ESTFormer CIA chief of staff predicts a 'multiweek campaign'Jeremy Bash, who served as chief of staff for the CIA and the Department of Defense during the Obama administration, told NBC News that the scale of today's attack on Iran "is much larger than we've seen before from the Trump administration."Bash, speaking to "Meet the Press" moderator Kristen Welker, compared today's operation to one earlier this year in Venezuela that led to the capture of that country's president, Nicolas Maduro."Those were largely 'one and done,'" Bash said. "And this is an extensive, coordinated, probably multiweek campaign."28m ago / 10:04 AM ESTExplosions heard in DubaiResidents of the United Arab Emirates reported hearing ongoing explosions across the country.The explosions could be heard in Dubai across its Barsha and Motor City neighborhoods, residents told NBC News. Missiles could be seen in the sky from the morning throughout the evening local time (late morning ET), and windows quivered as the airstrikes passed. Iran said it retaliated against the U.S. and Israel's joint attack by targeting U.S. bases across the region, including in the UAE. 28m ago / 10:03 AM ESTU.K., Germany and France condemn Iran strikes in Middle EastThe U.K., Germany and France condemned Iranian strikes on countries across the Middle East, releasing a joint statement telling Iran to stop its attacks in the region.“We condemn Iranian attacks on countries in the region in the strongest terms,” French President Emmanuel Macron, German Chancellor Friedrich Merz and British Prime Minister Keir Starmer said.“We call for a resumption of negotiations and urge the Iranian leadership to seek a negotiated solution. Ultimately, the Iranian people must be allowed to determine their future,” the statement added.The three leaders urged Iran to resume negotiations, saying they had consistently backed calls for the nation to end its nuclear program.“We reiterate our commitment to regional stability and to the protection of civilian life,” the statement said.29m ago / 10:03 AM ESTAttack launched during holy month of RamadanThe U.S. and Israel launched a joint attack on Iran today as many Muslims in the country have been observing the holy month of Ramadan. Ramadan, the ninth and most sacred month of the Islamic calendar, is when Muslims believe the first verses of the Quran were revealed to Prophet Muhammad. Muslims observe the spiritual month by fasting from sunrise to sunset, performing prayers in congregation and giving charity to those less fortunate. Iran is a Muslim-majority nation.As Iranian citizens awoke this morning to eat suhoor, a meal to prepare for the fast, and pray the sunrise prayer, the strikes were underway.Dozens of children were killed in a strike on a school for girls in Iran’s southern county of Minab, Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi said.United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres condemned the military action and Iran's response."The use of force by the United States and Israel against Iran, and the subsequent retaliation by Iran across the region, undermine international peace and security," Guterres said.32m ago / 10:00 AM ESTU.N. secretary-general condemns military escalation in IranUnited Nations Secretary-General António Guterres condemned the U.S. and Israel's military attack on Iran and the Iranian response.“The use of force by the United States and Israel against Iran, and the subsequent retaliation by Iran across the region, undermine international peace and security,” Guterres said in a statement posted to X.44m ago / 9:48 AM ESTFull interview: Iranian foreign minister reacts to U.S. and Israeli strikesNBC News spoke live to Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi in the wake of the joint strikes by the U.S. and Israel.You can watch the full interview here. 29:20 52m ago / 9:40 AM ESTIran willing to de-escalate and is only attacking American military bases, foreign minister tells NBC NewsIran is attacking U.S. military facilities in the Middle East region and not "Americans in their land," Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi said in his exclusive interview with NBC News.He added that Tehran was interested in de-escalation and ready to talk once the joint U.S.-Israeli strikes end. Iran's FM: Trump's call for regime change is ‘mission impossible’08:12 “There is no communication right now,” Araghchi said. “But if Americans wants to talk to us. They know how they can contact me. We are certainly interested for de-escalation.”“This is a war of choice by the United States, and they have to pay for that,” he added. “But as far as we are concerned, we don’t want war.”Show moreAmerican forces were attacking our people in our cities, he said, “but this is not what we are going to do. We are attacking the Americans bases, military bases in the region, and military installations and facilities, and this is only as an act of self-defense.”“We are not, we are not the one who starts this aggression,” he added. “It was the United States and Israel who started this aggression. So there is no limit for us to defend ourselves, but once the aggression is stopped, we would also stop our self-defense.”2h ago / 9:27 AM ESTIran's supreme leader is still alive 'as far as I know,' foreign minister tells NBC News after U.S.-Israeli strikesIran’s supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, is still alive "as far as I know," the country's foreign minister has said in an exclusive interview with NBC News. Speaking live from Tehran after the joint strikes by the U.S. and Israel, Abbas Araghchi said two commanders had died but senior officials in the regime had survived including the head of the judiciary and the parliament speaker. “All high ranking officials are alive,” he said. “So everybody is now in its position, and we are handling this situation, and everything is fine.” NBC News has not independently verified the claims.Araghchi also criticized the U.S. and Israel for launching the attack despite ongoing nuclear negotiations. Iranian foreign minister: Iran's supreme leader is still alive 'as far as I know’01:55 2h ago / 9:10 AM ESTOman's foreign minister 'dismayed' negotiations have been 'undermined'Oman's Foreign Minister Badr al-Busaidi said he was "dismayed" that "active and serious negotiations" had "yet again been undermined." A key go-between in talks, he had initially expressed optimism around negotiations between the U.S. and Iran earlier this week."Neither the interests of the United States nor the cause of global peace are well served by this," al-Busaidi said in a post on X, urging Washington not to "get sucked in further." Just a day ago, after meeting with Vice President JD Vance, al-Busaidi had expressed optimism over the "progress achieved so far" in indirect talks between Washington and Tehran, which have been brokered by Oman."Peace is within our reach," he had said in a post on X.2h ago / 9:01 AM ESTAnalysis: Iran is now in conflict with pretty much all of its neighborsObviously, this is a developing situation, but what is very different this time, and is very apparent, is that this quickly has become a regional conflict.Previous rounds of violence between Israel and Iran have for the most part involved those two nations, although the U.S. got involved last time around because it was the only nation with weaponry capable of striking Iran’s nuclear facilities buried deep under mountains. Today Iran has launched drones and missiles not only at Israel, but also at U.S. military installations in Bahrain, Kuwait, Qatar, Jordan, the United Arab Emirates and Iraq.It went regional immediately and it puts Iran in a difficult position, because now it is at conflict with pretty much all of its neighbors. 2h ago / 8:59 AM ESTIran's foreign minister says dozens of children killed in school strike "Dozens of innocent children" were killed in a strike on a school for girls in Iran's southern county of Minab, Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi has said. The facility, which he said was a primary school for girls, was "bombed in broad daylight, when packed with young pupils," Araghchi said in a post on X, sharing a photo of dozens of people surrounding a heavily damaged building with smoke rising from the facility.His comments came after semiofficial Iranian news agency Mehr news and others reported a strike at a school killing more than 50 people and injuring dozens more.The Israeli military’s situation room said earlier that it was looking into the reports of fatalities at the school. Asked for an update, it said it had none to provide. NBC News was not immediately able to confirm reports of the strike or the associated death toll.2h ago / 8:48 AM ESTProjectile explodes in the ocean off northern Israel An incoming projectile exploded over the water in the bay of Haifa, off the coast of the northern Israeli city today. 2h ago / 8:43 AM ESTAttacks carry 'grave consequences for international peace': MacronFrench President Emmanuel Macron has warned that the "outbreak of war between the United States, Israel and Iran" will carry "grave consequences for international peace and security" as he called for a halt to further escalation. "At this decisive moment, every measure is being taken to ensure the security of our national territory, our citizens, and our interests in the Middle East," Macron said in a post on X today. He added that France stood at the ready to deploy "the necessary resources to protect its closest partners, should they request it." Still, Macron warned that the "ongoing escalation was dangerous for all" and "must stop." He added that France was calling for an urgent meeting of the United Nations Security Council in the wake of the hostilities."The Iranian regime must understand that it now has no other option but to engage in good faith in negotiations to end its nuclear and ballistic programs, as well as its regional destabilization activities," Macron said. He added that the Iranian people "must also be able to freely build their future." 3h ago / 8:28 AM EST'All I want is freedom,' Trump says after launching strikes President Trump said his main concern was “freedom” for the Iranian people, just hours after launching joint strikes with Israel on the nation.“All I want is freedom for the people,” Trump said in a brief phone interview with The Washington Post early this morning, shortly after 4 a.m.“I want a safe nation, and that’s what we’re going to have,” the president said when asked what he hoped would be the result of the military action and a push for regime change in Iran.In a video statement earlier today, Trump said his objective is "to defend the American people by eliminating imminent threats from the Iranian regime.” 3h ago / 8:00 AM ESTIran will deliver a 'more forceful' response this time, authorities tell Iranians in text messageA text message sent out to cellphones in Iran today said that Iran will deliver a "more forceful" response than the 12-day war with the U.S. and Israel last summer. "Iran’s response this time will be faster, more forceful, and more extensive than the 12-day war, the text message, which was verified by NBC News, said. It added that "Iran’s armed forces have begun a comprehensive response against American and Israeli bases."3h ago / 7:58 AM ESTFear in Tehran as parents rush to pick up kids at school and traffic clogs streetsCars clogged many of Tehran's roads as residents of the Iranian capital rushed to pick up their children at school or left work early to head home. The government asked those who were already home to stay put and avoid going out. Long lines could be seen at bakeries and gas stations, as people stocked up on essentials. 3h ago / 7:39 AM ESTDozens killed in Israeli strike on school in Iran, agencies reportDozens of people were killed and scores more injured in an Israeli strike on a school in Iran's southern county of Minab, the semi-official Iranian news agency Mehr news has reported. The Israeli military's situation room said it was looking into the reports of fatalities at the school. NBC News was not immediately able to confirm reports of the strike or the associated death toll. The special governor of Minab County said that at least 51 people had been killed and at least 60 injured in the attack, which was said to have hit a girls' primary school, Mehr reported. Semi-official news agency Tasnim also reported on the attack, citing an initial death toll of more than 20.3h ago / 7:34 AM ESTIran warns rivals they could become 'legitimate targets' if they enable attacksIranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi contacted the foreign ministers of Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Kuwait, Bahrain and Iraq and warned them not to let the U.S. and Israel use their territory to attack Iran or they could become "legitimate targets."Araghchi "reminded all regional states of their responsibility to prevent the United States and the Zionist regime from using their facilities and territories to carry out aggressive operations against Iran," according to a report posted on Telegram by the semiofficial Mehr news agency.He said that Iran's armed forces "will regard the origin and source of aggressive operations" as well as "any action aimed at confronting Iran’s defensive operations, as legitimate targets."Araghchi said the war is "not only against the Iranian nation but against all countries of the region," adding that "all Muslim nations and regional governments bear a historic responsibility to act," according to the report. 4h ago / 7:14 AM ESTRed Cross warns of 'dangerous chain reaction' across Middle EastThe Red Cross said that military escalation in the Middle East risked “igniting a dangerous chain reaction across the region, with potentially devastating consequences for civilians.”Mirjana Spoljaric, president of the International Committee of the Red Cross, said in a statement that “upholding the rules of war is an obligation and not a choice.” “Humanitarian aid cannot match the pace or scale of suffering caused by continuous conflict,” she said. “Political will is needed to achieve peace and prevent further death and destruction.”Spoljaric added that civilian infrastructure such as hospitals, homes and schools “must be spared from attack.”4h ago / 7:04 AM ESTRussia condemns 'unprovoked act of armed aggression against sovereign state' Russia has condemned the U.S. and Israel's strikes on Iran this morning as an "unprovoked act of armed aggression against a sovereign state." In a statement from its foreign ministry, Moscow, which just days ago marked the fourth year of its war in Ukraine, said the scale of preparations ahead of the attack left "no doubt that this was a pre-planned and unprovoked act of armed aggression" against an "independent UN member state." It said the attacks violated the "fundamental principles and norms of international law."The foreign ministry said it was "equally condemnable" that the attacks were being carried out "under the guise of renewed negotiations, ostensibly aimed at ensuring long-term normalisation of the situation around the Islamic Republic, and despite signals conveyed to the Russian side that the Israelis have no interest in a military confrontation with the Iranians." 4h ago / 6:54 AM ESTQatar seeks temporary suspension of maritime navigation Qatar's transportation ministry has called on all maritime vessels to "temporarily suspend maritime navigation" as a precautionary measure amid the hostilities in the region. It urged owners of all maritime vessels, "be them individuals or companies," to heed its warning. It said the ministry would continue to follow up and coordinate with all relevant bodies and would announce further updates as they become available. 4h ago / 6:44 AM ESTSaudi Arabia denounces 'Iranian aggression' following retaliatory strikes Saudi Arabia has condemned what it described as "brutal Iranian aggression" after Tehran launched retaliatory strikes targeting U.S. military bases across the region.A statement said the Iranian strikes marked a "blatant violation of the sovereignty of the United Arab Emirates, the Kingdom of Bahrain, the State of Qatar, the State of Kuwait and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan." It affirmed its "full solidarity and support for the sisterly countries" and said it was placing "all its capabilities at their disposal to support them in all measures they take."It further warned of the "grave consequences of the continued violation of the sovereignty of states and the principles of international law." 4h ago / 6:39 AM ESTAnalysis: Iran's retaliatory strikes threaten an escalation across the regionMultiple eyewitnesses have said they heard explosions around both of the major cities in the United Arab Emirates, Dubai and Abu Dhabi. One described three “extremely loud pops overhead” that sounded like three missile interception bursts.The UAE’s defense ministry announced the “successful interception of several Iranian missiles targeting the country,” but it said one person was killed by debris falling on a residential area in Abu Dhabi. In Bahrain, an official said Iranian strikes have targeted the area where the U.S. Fifth Fleet is stationed. The USS Abraham Lincoln was in port there a few weeks ago before it repositioned to the Arabian Sea take part in this operation. In Qatar, the government said it had intercepted Iranian strikes and air defenses have also dealt with attacks in Kuwait. Show moreGovernments are already urging caution, with the UAE warning of a “dangerous escalation” that threatens “the security and safety of civilians and undermines stability.”The country “reserves its full right to respond to this escalation and take all necessary measures to protect its territory, its people, and its residents,” it said in a statement.4h ago / 6:32 AM ESTKuwait warns it has the 'right to defend itself' after Iranian missilesKuwait has warned that it has the "right to defend itself" after Iranian missiles targeted its territory this morning in Tehran's retaliatory strikes aimed at U.S. military bases across the region. In a statement, Kuwait's Ministry of Foreign Affairs condemned the Iranian strikes as a "flagrant violation of the sovereignty of the State of Kuwait and its airspace, as well as international law and the United Nations Charter."It sought to affirm Kuwait's "full and legitimate right to defend itself," citing Article 51 of the United Nations Charter "in response to this brazen aggression, in a manner commensurate with the scale and nature of this violation." It noted that Kuwait's defense systems "successfully repelled" the attacks, but warned that the "continuation of these aggressive military actions witnessed in the region" would "undermine regional security and stability."5h ago / 6:25 AM ESTIsrael's Iron Dome activates as Iran fires back Rocket trails from Israel’s Iron Dome missile defence system are seen over the skies of Jerusalem this morning. Similar scenes were captured in the clear blue skies over Tel Aviv as Iran fired missiles in retaliation to the joint U.S.-Israeli military action. 5h ago / 6:21 AM ESTAnalysis: Announcing attack, Trump did not repeat his key Iran nuclear claimIn his speech announcing the U.S. military attack, President Donald Trump said the objective was to eliminate “imminent threats” posed by Iran. But he did not say that Iran was close to developing a nuclear weapon or that it had resumed uranium enrichment.The president did repeat a claim from his State of the Union address on Tuesday that Iran would “soon” have long-range missiles that could reach the United States. But last year, the Defense Intelligence Agency said Iran could develop an ICBM by 2035 if it chose to take that route. 5h ago / 6:13 AM ESTNo reported American casualties so far from Iran's retaliatory strikesAs of now, there are no reported American casualties from Iran’s retaliatory strikes against U.S. military facilities in Bahrain, Kuwait, Jordan, UAE and Qatar, according to two U.S. officials. The officials said there is damage to infrastructure in Bahrain after Iran struck the Fifth Fleet, but it’s not clear if the damage is on the base or not. The Navy’s Fifth Fleet is headquartered in Juffair at Naval Support Activity (NSA) Bahrain. The U.S. officials stressed that this assessment is just *as of now* and noted the situation is fluid. They said the U.S. and Israeli strikes will continue, and the U.S. expects Iran will continue to retaliate.5h ago / 6:09 AM ESTTrump said Iran will 'soon' have missiles able to hit the U.S. An intel report said it will take 10 years. In his State of the Union address, President Donald Trump seemed to offer another rationale for possible military action against Iran, saying it was working to develop missiles that could “soon” be able to strike the U.S. Trump makes claims about Iran’s weapons capabilities during State of the Union03:22 It was the first time the president or any other U.S. official has portrayed Iran as poised to develop an intercontinental ballistic missile, or ICBM. Until now, U.S. intelligence agencies and European governments have said Iran could eventually build an ICBM under the cover of its military space program if it chose to.But U.S. intelligence and military commanders have not publicly warned of an imminent threat due to a possible ICBM program.Read the full story here.5h ago / 6:02 AM ESTFootage emerges of strike fallout in TehranStills from video footage obtained by AFP, not verified by NBC News, appear to show the fallout from strikes in Tehran this morning. The United States and Israel launched strikes against Iran, sparking fears of regional war with explosions reported across the Middle East as the Islamic Republic retaliated with barrages of missiles.5h ago / 6:00 AM ESTMiddle East diplomat says Israel intervened to pre-empt diplomacy As negotiations between the U.S. and Iran this past week appeared "close to success," Israel "intervened to preempt diplomacy," a senior Middle East diplomat with direct knowledge of the recent talks told NBC News. “Yet again when negotiations get close to success Israel has intervened," the diplomat said, adding: "Yet again an Israeli tail is wagging the American dog.”President Donald Trump has said that the U.S. "sought repeatedly to make a deal" to curtail Iran's nuclear program in negotiations with Tehran. "We tried," he said in a statement released on Truth Social, with the U.S. and Israel launching strikes on Iran early this morning. In his own statement this morning, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Iran "must not be armed with nuclear weapons that would allow it to threaten all of humanity." He said the joint military action would "create the conditions for the courageous Iranian people to take their destiny into their own hands" in the wake of nationwide unrest. 5h ago / 5:55 AM ESTAny military base that is used in attack against Iran will be targeted, senior Revolutionary Guards commanderGen. Abolfazl Shekarchi, the spokesman for Iran’s Armed Forces, said in an interview with state TV that any military base that is used to assist the U.S. and Israel in attacking Iran will be targeted. 5h ago / 5:52 AM ESTAnalysis: Specter of Iraq looms over calls for regime change in neighboring Iran Israel and the United States have both made clear that their joint offensive is aimed at removing the Iranian regime — a mission that the U.S. has tried, tested and failed in the past in the Middle East with deadly, destabilizing results.President Donald Trump called on Iranians to be prepared to wrest control of the regime once the dust settles, a message echoed by Israel’s Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu who said in a statement that the attacks would “create the conditions for the courageous Iranian people to take their destiny into their own hands.”Neither leader explicitly stated that they would put boots on the ground but Trump did warn to anticipate American casualties. That foreshadowing will remind Middle East watchers of the drumbeats that preceded America’s invasion of Iraq — a sprawling operation that began with impressive “shock and awe” airstrikes over the skies of Baghdad but ended in a years-long quagmire, the deaths of nearly 5,000 American servicemen and hundreds of thousands of Iraqis.Show moreThe war in Afghanistan also ended with an outright loss — the United States withdrew in August 2021, after a nearly 20-year occupation. Iran is much larger than Iraq — it has about twice the population and three times the geographic area.And Netanyahu’s statement inadvertantly made the challenge clear: He called on ethnic groups like the “Kurds, the Azeris, the Balochis and the Ahwazis” to “throw off the yoke of tyranny.”But in Iraq, which also hosts a large population of ethnic and religious minorities, much of the fighting ended up being internecine as Sunnis, Shiites and Kurds fought amongst each other as they vied for power.5h ago / 5:47 AM ESTBasij militia begin patrols in Tehran, hinting at fears of internal unrestThe Basij militia, which is overseen by the Islamic Revolutionary Guards, the most powerful military force in Iran, began patrols across all 22 districts of Tehran, according to the semiofficial Fars news agency. The Basij played a key role in the violent crackdown against protestors last month, which left thousands dead, and deployment across the capital could be an indication of government concerns about internal unrest."The plan has been implemented with the aim of serving the public and increasing citizen participation in maintaining security," the report said. 5h ago / 5:43 AM EST1 dead in Abu Dhabi, UAE says, as states intercept Iranian missiles At least one person has been killed in Abu Dhabi, the United Arab Emirates has confirmed, as states in the region intercepted Iranian missiles targeting U.S. military facilities across the Middle East.The UAE's defense ministry said in a post on X that several missiles targeting the country had been successfully intercepted following a "blatant attack today by Iranian ballistic missiles." It said one person was killed after falling debris fell on a residential area in Abu Dhabi, also causing "some material damage." Missile interceptions were also reported in Qatar, Kuwait and Jordan. 5h ago / 5:36 AM ESTIsrael targeted Iranian leaders while U.S. hit missile sitesSo far in the military operation in Iran, Israel targeted Iranian leaders, while the U.S. targeted Iran's ballistic missile and nuclear programs, according to two U.S. officials.6h ago / 5:27 AM ESTA look at U.S. military assets in the Middle EastThe U.S. built up a massive military presence in the Middle East while holding nuclear talks with the Islamic Republic. In addition, it maintains military bases in allied nations throughout the region. 6h ago / 5:13 AM ESTIran’s Supreme National Security Council says armed forces have begun “crushing response” to attacksIran’s Supreme National Security Council said in a statement that the armed forces will give a “crushing response” to the U.S. and Israeli attacks. “The enemy believes that the resilient Iranian nation will surrender to their petty demands through such cowardly actions,” the council said in a statement published by the semiofficial Mehr news agency. “The armed forces of the Islamic Republic of Iran have begun a crushing response to their malicious actions and will continuously keep the dear public informed,” the statement added. The statement asked people to avoid crowding in shopping centers and noted that schools and universities will be closed until further notice, while banks will remain open and government offices will operate at 50% capacity.6h ago / 5:10 AM ESTSens. Lindsay Graham and John Fetterman praise U.S. action in Iran, but others criticize ‘unauthorized’ strikesThe immediate political fallout from the strikes in Iran is not dividing evenly along party lines, with some Republicans voicing concerns about the lack of Congressional authorization for military action in the Middle East.Republican Rep. Thomas Massie, R-Ky., called the attack an act of war “unauthorized by congress.” But Senator John Fetterman, D-Pa, said Trump had been “willing to do what’s right and necessary to produce real peace in the region.”“God bless the United States, our great military, and Israel,” he added.“God bless @POTUS for planning and now executing Operation Epic Fury, making America more safe and eventually more prosperous,” Senator Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., said on X. “My mind is racing with the thought that the murderous ayatollah’s regime in Iran will soon be no more.” In a separate post on X, he added: “God bless President Trump, our military and our allies in Israel.” How both sides of Congress are reacting to the strikes in Iran02:08 6h ago / 5:01 AM ESTAnalysis: Trump has called for Iranian people to topple the regime, but there is no organized oppositionPresident Donald Trump has called on the Iranian people to topple the regime once the U.S. and Israeli air strikes are finished, but his administration has not explained how it expects this to happen or what might replace it.Although the regime is deeply unpopular, there is no organized, coherent political opposition on the ground.Reza Pahlavi, the son of the deposed Shah living in the United States, has said he is ready to be the leader of a democratic transition. It is not clear how much support Pahlavi has on the ground in Iran. He also has not secured a clear endorsement from Trump, who has called him a “nice guy” but questioned whether he could be a future leader.6h ago / 4:54 AM ESTIranian state TV reports '4 main U.S. bases simultaneously struck by heavy IRGC missile attacks'Iranian state television has reported Iranian attacks on four U.S. bases across the region."The Al Udeid Air Base in Qatar, Al Salem base in Kuwait, Al Dhafra Air Base in the United Arab Emirates, and the U.S. Fifth Fleet base in Bahrain have been targeted by Iranian missile strikes," the state TV report said. 6h ago / 4:50 AM ESTGas lines in the Israeli-occupied West Bank People rush to fill their tanks at a gas station in Nablus, in the Israeli-occupied West Bank on Saturday, after Israel and the U.S. launched strikes on Iran. 6h ago / 4:37 AM ESTIran retaliating against multiple U.S. military facilitiesA U.S. official says Iran is retaliating against multiple U.S. military facilities across the Middle East. Iran retaliates against multiple U.S. military facilities in Middle East03:58 6h ago / 4:35 AM ESTIranian president is safe, acting head of his office says Iran's President Masoud Pezeshkian "is in full health and safety," according to to Mohammad Jafar Ghaem-Panah, the Executive Vice President and acting head of the presidential office. Ghaem-Panah made the announcement on X where he called the attacks by the U.S. and Israel "unjust." 6h ago / 4:32 AM ESTIranian interior ministry says it will 'preserve order and peace,' a possible warning to protestors Iran's Ministry of Interior said it would "preserve order and peace" in a statement on Saturday, which could be a warning to protestors not to take advantage of the attacks to take to the streets. Widespread anti-government protests rocked Iran last month and were only stopped by a brutal government crackdown that led to thousands of deaths. The statement said: “The criminal enemy, once again, in violation of all international laws and in the middle of negotiation, has assaulted our dear nation. The Ministry of Interior is committed to using its full capacity to preserve order and peace in society and provide services to the people.”The statement requested people to stay calm and be careful when traveling within cities and between cities.7h ago / 4:26 AM ESTSound of explosions constant in central TehranThe sound of explosions is constant in central Tehran where air defenses have been activated.  But communication is difficult and internet watchdog Netblocks says there is only 4% connectivity. Internet blackouts are frequent in times of crisis here. 7h ago / 4:18 AM ESTU.S. Navy service center in Bahrain 'subjected to missile attack': state mediaThe U.S. Navy’s Fifth Fleet service center was “subjected to a missile attack,” according to the Bahraini State News agency BNA. The Fifth Fleet manages operations in the Middle East and is headquartered in Bahrain.Bahrain’s Interior Ministry posted on X that alarm sirens have been activated and citizens and residents are urged to shelter. Bahrain’s National Communication Center confirmed the attacks “targeting sites and facilities within the Kingdom’s borders” were launched from outside its territory.  7h ago / 4:13 AM ESTAnalysis: Trump's address frames 'Operation Epic Fury' as a major move against IranU.S. President Donald Trump's address signals that this is much more than an attempt to get Iran's leaders to compromise in negotiations. He described the strikes — called by the U.S. as "Operation Epic Fury" — as "major combat operations in Iran." He frames it as a moment in history. Joint U.S.-Israeli 'Operation Epic Fury' attacks military and security targets in Iran06:11 "For 47 years the Iranian regime has chanted death to America and waged an unending campaign of bloodshed and mass murder," Trump said.Trump references the Iranian hostage crisis of 1979 and 1980, saying: "Among the regime's first acts was to back a violent takeover of the US embassy in Tehran holding dozens of American hostages for 444 days." Show moreHe catalogs Iran's offenses right up to the present era, adding: "It was Iran's proxy Hamas that launched the monstrous October 7th attacks on Israel."Israel's Prime Minister Netanyahu's statement talks about regime change too. "Our joint action will create the conditions for the courageous Iranian people to take their destiny into their own hands," he said.Trump concedes that an operation of this scale is not without risk, saying: 'The lives of courageous American heroes may be lost and we may have casualties, that often happens in war."Past presidents learned how consequential a decision like this is for an American leader. During the hostage crisis, President Jimmy Carter launched an operation to try to rescue those held in the U.S. embassy. It was a failure, with U.S. casualties, and contributed to the end of Carter's administration.7h ago / 4:05 AM ESTHardline Iranian MP says 'no red lines' in responding to attackHardline Iranian parliamentarian Alaeddin Boroujerdi says there will be no "red lines" in responding to the attack on Iran."We had previously announced that we would have no red lines. We hope this action marks the beginning of the end of the Zionist regime," he said in an interview with state TV."Our response will be regret-inducing. We will use all of our capacities. Our rightful and necessary response, especially to the Zionist regime, will be delivered," he added.7h ago / 3:58 AM ESTIsrael and U.S. previously attacked Iran in JuneIsrael attacked Iran in June of last year in what became known as the 12-day war, a little more than eight months ago.Israel launched strikes against Iran on June 13, local time. At the time, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said the operation targeted Iran’s nuclear program.Iran responded with an attack that that government said involved hundreds of missiles were fired against Israel. In that attack, the U.S. assisted Israel in shooting down Iranian missiles, U.S. officials said at the time.The U.S. military also conducted airstrikes against Iran in June of last year, which was called “Operation Midnight Hammer.” It was the first time the U.S. launched airstrikes on Iranian soil.Trump said last June after those U.S. strikes that Iran's nuclear sites were "completely and fully obliterated.”7h ago / 3:55 AM ESTU.S. embassy in Jerusalem issues shelter in place alert The U.S. embassy in Jerusalem has issued a security alert directing all U.S. government employees and family members in Israel to shelter in place until further notice. It noted that Israel has closed its airspace to all civilian flights. 7h ago / 3:52 AM ESTWatch: Trump announces beginning of 'major combat operations in Iran' 07:58 President Donald Trump confirmed the strikes on Iran in a video message shared on Truth Social, reiterating that Iran “can never have a nuclear weapon.”7h ago / 3:52 AM ESTIsraelis seek shelter in Tel AvivA woman hides beneath a lookout point in Jerusalem this morning, as Israel awaits retaliatory strikes from the Iranian regime following its joint military action in Iran with the United States. A man carries two children as he runs to take shelter, after sirens sounded in Tel Aviv. Members of the Israeli security personnel move patients to safety in a parking lot at Sourasky Medical Center in Tel Aviv.7h ago / 3:50 AM ESTIran's Revolutionary Guard announces attack against IsraelIran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps announced that they are launching a counter-attack, according to a statement posted by the semi-official Tasnim news agency on Telegram."In an answer to the hostile and criminal enemy assault to the Islamic Republic of Iran, the first broad wave of missile and drone attacks of the Islamic Republic of Iran toward the occupied land has begun," the statement said. 7h ago / 3:46 AM ESTTrump warned Iran not to challenge U.S. military U.S. President Donald Trump today in announcing “major combat operations in Iran” warned about his country’s military capabilities.“This regime will soon learn that no one should challenge the strength and might of the United States armed forces,” Trump said in the video. 7h ago / 3:42 AM EST'The time to return to the streets is near': Reza Pahlavi tells Iranians to reclaim the country Reza Pahlavi, the U.S.-based son of Iran’s shah deposed in the 1979 Islamic Revolution, has urged Iranians to reclaim the nation.“Moments of destiny lie ahead of us,” he wrote on X. “This is a humanitarian intervention; and its target is the Islamic Republic, its repressive apparatus, and its machinery of slaughter—not the country and great nation of Iran.”“But, even with the arrival of this aid, the final victory will still be forged by our hands. It is we, the people of Iran, who will finish the job in this final battle. The time to return to the streets is near,” he continued. He urged Iranians to stay home and safe amid the strikes, until the time is right.“Stay vigilant and ready so that, at the appropriate time—which I will announce to you precisely—you can return to the streets for the final action,” he wrote.Show more“We are very close to final victory. I want to be by your side as soon as possible so that together we can take back and rebuild Iran,” he said. He called for Iran’s military, police and security forces to defend the Iranian people, not the regime, writing: “Join the people and help bring about a stable and secure transition. Otherwise, you will go down with Khamenei’s sinking ship and his regime.”He also issued a message to Trump, saying: “I now ask you to exercise the utmost caution to preserve the lives of civilians and my compatriots.”7h ago / 3:39 AM ESTIran is now in the middle of an almost complete internet blackout: monitoring groupThe internet has been almost completely cut off after the start of the U.S. and Israeli attack, according to internet monitoring group NetBlocks."Confirmed: Network data show #Iran is now in the midst of a near-total internet blackout with national connectivity at 4% or ordinary levels. The incident comes amid US and Israeli combat operations and matches measures used during last year’s war with Israel," the group posted on Saturday.Iranian authorities cut the internet completely for nearly three weeks during nationwide protests last month.7h ago / 3:37 AM ESTNetanyahu says attack was 'to remove the existential threat' Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said that “Israel and the United States embarked on an operation to remove the existential threat posed by the terrorist regime in Iran.” Netanyahu also referred to the U.S., which took part in the strikes against Iran, saying “I thank our great friend, President Donald Trump, for his historic leadership.”“Our joint action will create the conditions for the courageous Iranian people to take their destiny into their own hands,” Netanyahu said.7h ago / 3:34 AM ESTRead Trump's full address on the strikes on IranPresident Donald Trump this morning posted an a video on Truth Social addressing the strikes on Iran. Below are his remarks in full.Show moreA short time ago, the United States military began major combat operations in Iran. Our objective is to defend the American people by eliminating imminent threats from the Iranian regime, a vicious group of very hard, terrible people. Its menacing activities directly endanger the United States, our troops, our bases overseas and our allies throughout the world. For 47 years, the Iranian regime has chanted “death to America” and waged an unending campaign of bloodshed and mass murder targeting the United States, our troops and the innocent people in many, many countries. Among the regime’s very first acts was to back a violent takeover of the U.S. Embassy in Tehran, holding dozens of American hostages for 444 days. In 1983, Iran’s proxies carried out the Marine barracks bombing in Beirut that killed 241 American military personnel. In 2000, they knew and were probably involved with the attack on the USS Cole. Many died. Iranian forces killed and maimed hundreds of American service members in Iraq. The regime’s proxies have continued to launch countless attacks against American forces stationed in the Middle East in recent years, as well as us, naval and commercial vessels and international shipping lands. It’s been mass terror, and we’re not going to put up with it any longer. From Lebanon to Yemen, and Syria to Iraq, the regime has armed, trained and funded terrorist militias that have soaked the earth with blood and guts. And it was Iran’s proxy Hamas that launched the monstrous October 7 attacks on Israel, slaughtering more than 1,000 innocent people, including 46 Americans, while taking 12 of our citizens hostage. It was brutal, something like the world has never seen before. Iran is the world’s number one state sponsor of terror, and just recently killed tens of thousands of its own citizens on the street as they protested. It has always been the policy of the United States, in particular my administration, that this terrorist regime can never have a nuclear weapon. I’ll say it again. They can never have a nuclear weapon. That is why, in Operation Midnight Hammer last June, we obliterated the regime’s nuclear program at Fordow, Natanz, and Isfahan. After that attack, we warned them never to resume their malicious pursuit of nuclear weapons, and we sought repeatedly to make a deal. We tried. They wanted to do it. They didn’t want to do it. Again, they wanted to do it. They didn’t want to do it. They didn’t know what was happening. They just wanted to practice evil. But Iran refused, just as it has for decades and decades. They rejected every opportunity to renounce their nuclear ambitions, and we can’t take it anymore. Instead, they attempted to rebuild their nuclear program and to continue developing long-range missiles that can now threaten our very good friends and allies in Europe, our troops stationed overseas and could soon reach the American homeland. Just imagine how emboldened this regime would be if they ever had — and actually were armed with — nuclear weapons as a means to deliver their message. For these reasons, the United States military is undertaking a massive and ongoing operation to prevent this very wicked radical dictatorship from threatening America and our core national security interests. We are going to destroy their missiles and raze their missile industry to the ground. It will be totally, again, obliterated. We’re going to annihilate their navy. We’re going to ensure that the region’s terrorist proxies can no longer destabilize the region or the world and attack our forces, and no longer use their IEDs or roadside bombs, as they are sometimes called, to so gravely wound and kill thousands and thousands of people, including many Americans. And we will ensure that Iran does not obtain a nuclear weapon. It’s a very simple message. They will never have a nuclear weapon. This regime will soon learn that no one should challenge the strength and might of the United States armed forces. I built and rebuilt our military in my first administration, and there is no military on Earth even close to its power, strength or sophistication. My administration has taken every possible step to minimize the risk to U.S. personnel in the region. Even so, and I do not make this statement lightly, the Iranian regime seeks to kill. The lives of courageous American heroes may be lost and we may have casualties, that often happens in war, but we’re doing this, not for now. We’re doing this for the future, and it is a noble mission. We pray for every service member as they selflessly risk their lives to ensure that Americans and our children will never be threatened by a nuclear armed Iran. We ask God to protect all of our heroes in harm’s way, and we trust that, with his help, the men and women of the armed forces will prevail. We have the greatest in the world, and they will prevail. To the members of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard, the armed forces and all of the police, I say tonight that you must lay down your weapons and have complete immunity, or in the alternative, face certain death. So, lay down your arms. You will be treated fairly with total immunity or will face certain death. Finally, to the great, proud people of Iran, I say tonight that the hour of your freedom is at hand. Stay sheltered. Don’t leave your home. It’s very dangerous outside. Bombs will be dropping everywhere. When we are finished, take over your government. It will be yours to take. This will be probably your only chance for generations. For many years, you have asked for America’s help, but you never got it. No president was willing to do what I am willing to do tonight. Now you have a president who is giving you what you want. So let’s see how you respond. America is backing you with overwhelming strength and devastating force. Now is the time to seize control of your destiny and to unleash the prosperous and glorious future that is close within your reach. This is the moment for action. Do not let it pass. May God bless the brave men and women of America’s armed forces. May God bless the United States of America. May God bless you all. Thank you. 8h ago / 3:31 AM ESTIran strike could last days, two U.S. officials sayThe military action in Iran could last for several days, two U.S. officials told NBC News.8h ago / 3:25 AM ESTMissiles launched from Iran towards Israel, IDF says Israel’s military said minutes ago that it “identified missiles launched from Iran toward Israel.”“Sirens were sounded in several areas across the country following the identification of missiles launched from Iran toward Israel,” the Israel Defense Forces said on X.“At this time, the IAF is operating to intercept and strike threats where necessary to remove the threat,” it said, referring to the air force.8h ago / 3:23 AM ESTU.S. launching military operation in Iran from air and sea, two U.S. officials sayThe U.S. is launching the military operation in Iran from air and sea, according to two U.S. officials. A large array of fighter jets is involved in the operation, one of the officials said. The other said the U.S. is targeting military and security targets in Iran.The U.S. is firing Tomahawk missiles from Navy ships into Iran, according to three U.S. officials.8h ago / 3:13 AM ESTIranian state media reports explosions in multiple locations across Iran, including the Persian GulfIran state media reports explosions in multiple locations outside Tehran, the capital of Iran.The report listed explosions in the holy city of Qom as well as Hamedan, Kermanshah, Karaj, Tabriz, Ilam and the island of Qeshm in the Persian Gulf.  8h ago / 3:09 AM EST‘We may have casualties’ in future, Trump says in videoPresident Donald Trump said that there could be future casualties in a military conflict after Israel and the U.S. military conducted strikes against Iran.Trump said in a video that the military was undertaking “a massive and ongoing operation.”“My administration is taking every possible step to minimize the risk to U.S. personnel in the region,” Trump said in the video.“Even so, and I do not make this statement lightly, the Iranian regime seeks to kill,” he said.“The lives of courageous American heroes may be lost, and we may have casualties. That often happens in war,” Trump said. He appeared to be talking about future retaliation. There have been no reports of any Americans killed or injured in the attack on Iran.8h ago / 3:04 AM ESTAnalysis: Iran falls silent as cell lines are cutMessages I have sent to people close to the Iranian government are not getting through as reports say cell phone service in parts of Tehran has been cut. But we do have initial reaction from Iranian officials. Iranian member of parliament Ebrahim Azizi posted on X, "We warned you! Now you have started down a path whose end is no longer in your control." Today's strikes are likely to have preempted that, targeting Iranian rocket launchers in an attempt to prevent it from firing its thousands of rockets against Israel and U.S. bases. Trump has described that threat from Iran as the reason for this operation, saying in his video statement, "Our objective is to defend the American people by eliminating imminent threats from the Iranian regime."8h ago / 2:59 AM ESTTrump says strikes come after Iran 'rejected every opportunity to renounce their nuclear ambitions'In his video message, Trump said the U.S. won’t allow Iran to have nuclear program. Trump cited Operation Midnight Hammer in June when U.S. strikes attacked Iran’s nuclear program at Fordow, Natanz and Isfahan.“After that attack we warned them never to resume their malicious pursuit of nuclear weapons and we sought repeatedly to make a deal. We tried. They wanted to do it, they didn't want to do it, again they wanted to do it. They didn't want to do it. They didn't know what was happening. They just wanted to practice evil," he said. Trump announces beginning of 'major combat operations in Iran'07:58 “They rejected every opportunity to renounce their nuclear ambitions, and we can’t take it anymore," Trump continued. "Instead, they attempted to rebuild their nuclear program and to continue developing long-range missiles that can now threaten our very good friends and allies in Europe, our troops stationed overseas and could soon reach the American homeland."Show moreTrump said Iran’s refusal to give up the nuclear program is the reason the U.S. has “undertaken a massive and ongoing operation.”“We are going to destroy their missiles and raise their missile industry to the ground. It will be totally again, obliterated. We are going to annihilate their navy. We are going to ensure that the region’s terrorist proxies can no longer destabilize the region or the world and attack our forces,” he continued.“And we will ensure that Iran does not obtained a nuclear weapon. It’s a very simple message. They will never have a nuclear weapon,” he emphasized. “This regime will soon learn that no one should challenge the strength and might of the United States Armed Forces.”8h ago / 2:58 AM ESTTrump tells Iranians 'take over your government'At the end of his video message, Trump spoke directly to people in Iran saying “the hour of your freedom is at hand,” urging citizens to “take over your government” when the strikes are over. “Stay sheltered. Don’t leave your home. It’s very dangerous outside. Bombs will be dropping everywhere,” Trump warned, with a promise of potential change."When we are finished, take over your government. It will be yours to take. This will be probably your only chance for generations," Trump said. "For many years, you have asked for America’s help, but you never got it. No president was willing to do what I am willing to do tonight."Show more"America is backing you with overwhelming strength and devastating force," Trump said. "Now is the time to seize control of your destiny and to unleash the prosperous and glorious future that is close within your reach. This is the moment for action. Do not let it pass."Trump also issued a message to members of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard, the armed forces and police in Iran, offering immunity to those who do not fight. “I say tonight that you must lay down your weapons and have complete immunity, or in the alternative, face certain death,” he said. “Lay down your arms. You will be treated fairly with total immunity, or you will face certain death.” 8h ago / 2:37 AM ESTTrump says U.S. has begun 'major combat operations in Iran'President Donald Trump confirmed the strike in a video message shared on Truth Social saying, "A short time ago, the United States military began major combat operations in Iran.""Our objective is to defend the American people by eliminating imminent threats from the Iranian regime," he said in the video, posted at 2:30 a.m. ET Saturday. "It has always been the policy of the United States, in particular my administration, that this terrorist regime can never have a nuclear weapon. I’ll say it again, they can never have a nuclear weapon," he said. 9h ago / 2:31 AM ESTIranian state media reports explosions in two locations in central TehranIranian state media reported explosions in two locations in central Tehran on Saturday morning local time.A photo accompanying the report showed thick smoke billowing into the sky.9h ago / 2:29 AM ESTIranian member of parliament says 'you’ve started down a path'Iranian member of parliament Ebrahim Azizi in a post on X struck a defiant tone after Israel and the United States conducted strikes against his country.“We warned you!” Azizi wrote on the social media platform. “Now you’ve started down a path whose end is no longer in your hands.”9h ago / 2:25 AM ESTStrikes in Iran are 'significant,' two U.S. officials say The strikes in Iran are significant, and are not small strikes, two U.S. officials told NBC News. 9h ago / 2:21 AM ESTCell phone signal cut off in some areas of Tehran, Iranian news agency reportsCell phone signal has been cut off in some areas of Tehran, according to the Iranian semiofficial Mehr news agency.9h ago / 2:12 AM ESTU.S. had sent additional carrier to Iran area before Israel strikes A second U.S. carrier strike group, the USS Ford Carrier Strike Group, was ordered to the Middle East earlier this month.The USS Abraham Lincoln carrier group was already in the region. The decision, which was reported on Feb. 13, came as tensions between the U.S. remained high.9h ago / 2:11 AM ESTIsraeli attack on Iran follows threats from Trump, warnings to U.S. embassy staff Israel’s stated attack on Iran came after threats by the Trump administration, including a warning to U.S. embassy staff in Israel to leave the country if they felt it necessary.President Donald Trump in his State of the Union address this week accused Iran’s government of “sinister nuclear ambitions.”The U.S. has been engaged with nuclear talks with Iran. Yesterday, the U.S. ambassador to Israel sent an email conveyed to the U.S. mission there that those who want to leave should “do so TODAY.” NBC News has seen the email, which was first reported by The New York Times.9h ago / 2:07 AM ESTIran’s airspace closed, news agency Tasnim reports Iran’s airspace is closed, Iran’s semi-official news agency Tasnim reports. 9h ago / 2:06 AM ESTU.S. is striking Iran alongside Israel, official tells NBC NewsThe U.S. is participating in the strikes in Iran with Israel, and the strikes are ongoing, a U.S. official tells NBC News. U.S. participating in strikes in Iran with Israel05:31 9h ago / 1:56 AM ESTExplosions heard in Tehran: Iranian mediaIran's semi-official FARS news agency reported that explosions had been heard across Tehran this morning. 9h ago / 1:42 AM ESTSmoke rises in downtown Tehran Israeli Defense Minister Israel Katz made the announcement of the attack as thick smoke rose from an explosion in downtown Tehran, Iran’s capital.Iranian state television acknowledged the blast, without providing more details.Sirens sounded across Israel at the same time. The Israeli military said that the “proactive alert to prepare the public for the possibility of missiles being launched toward the state of Israel.”9h ago / 1:42 AM ESTIsrael attacks Iran Israel says it has launched a pre-emptive strike on Iran08:03 Israel has launched what it called a preemptive strike against Iran “The State of Israel has launched a preemptive strike against Iran to remove threats against the State of Israel,” a spokesperson for Israel’s defense minister said.Retaliation is expected, the spokesperson said.“As a result, a missile and UAV attack against the State of Israel and its civilian population is expected in the immediate time frame,” the spokesperson said. 0NBC News NBC NewsPhil Helsel, Marlene Lenthang, Gordon Lubold, and Courtney Kube contributed.